Okay, so let's break down how
to actually write the report,
cuz I know this is the most
intimidating part for most people,
neither the designers I speak to or the
developers are particularly writey people.
And as someone that's written six books,
I can make it sounds really easy,
but I know it's not for many people.
So let's just really run
through how I write and and
how you stop yourself getting into that,
it's not good enough or
I'm gonna have to start again, no, and
going around around in circles, right?
You got to be really regimented,
cuz we don't wanna waste time on this.
We're busy people, we wanna be earning
money, we do wanna be marketing.
So you stick with this, and
this approach to writing applies with your
writing a report, an email,
a blog post, anything, right?
First, you create an outline, okay?
So in the case of our report,
we're gonna divide our report
into six to eight topics
relating to a problem area or
trend that we have observed
through the survey or
if we did the review, right, the audit.
So, and then what you wanna do is think of
each section as a short blog post, okay?
It makes it suddenly
a lot more manageable,
you're writing six to eight short blog
posts, not one massive report, okay?
So at the beginning,
before all of those six to eight topics,
we're gonna introduce a summary section,
which is gonna outline the topics that
are gonna be covered in the key findings.
You're gonna write that last, okay?
We're gonna add a before our topics
a short section on the methodology
that we used, where we're gonna talk
about the survey, the site audits,
the interviews,
if you carried out any interviews, etc.
And then we're gonna end the whole thing
with the benefits of signing up for
ongoing advice, and that will become
more obvious as to what that is later.
So, then you're going to
write the initial draft.
This is the bit, you're gonna write it one
section at a time over many days, right?
Don't sit down in one go,
yeah, you'll go nuts.
Write one topic of all six to
eight topics a day, maybe,
or a week for all I care,
but spread it out.
And then this is the most important
piece of advice that I can give
about writing your initial draft.
Write drunk, edit sober, right?
This is Ernest Hemingway that said this,
and
I am not suggesting that you
will become alcoholics, but
what I am suggesting is that
the thought behind it is right.
When you first write,
write with gay abandon, right?
Write as if no one's reading,
write as if it doesn't matter, okay?
Write as if you were drunk.
Because you can pass back through it and
tidy up later.
The biggest mistake people make when
trying to write things like this is they
agonize over every word, they try and
edit as they go along, and
it just doesn't work.
Just write as if you were
talking to a friend, okay?
I've just finished a massive report and
I got to the end of it,
right, in the first draft and
I thought that is a pile of steaming
manure, it felt awful, rqight?
But when I went back through it,
I found out it was nowhere near as
bad as I thought it was, you know?
So for each section, right,
aim for between 500 and
800 words for a short blog post for
each of our topic areas.
Outline any findings that you
found from the survey and audit.
Use your survey results so
you can actually reference some
figures from the survey if relevant.
Show some examples from your audit that
backup whatever it is that you found.
Quote anybody who's spoken
about that thing, right,
that happen to mention
whatever that topic is.
And make some basic recommendations
based on best practice.
That's it, right?
That is all you need to do for
each of those topic areas.
So most of it is just regurgitating
what was in the survey or
what other people have said to you.
Then once you've done that,
then once you've written all of those,
you've done the initial draft,
then we're gonna do one, what?
No, we're gonna do two
pass-throughs to edit it, right?
Pass-through number one is we are going
to take it through Grammarly, okay?
I don't know whether you own Grammarly,
if you don't own Grammarly, get Grammarly,
it's amazing,
it will do all the thinking for you.
You won't need to worry about typos,
you won't need to worry about bad grammar,
it'll fix it all for you, right?
Absolutely invaluable, right?
So you take your drunk copy and
run it through Grammarly and
it'll identify all of those
kinda things for you.
Then what you're gonna do is read it back,
okay?
Now, the way I read it back is I get
the computer to read it back to me.
Because a computer will read what's there,
not what I think I wrote, [LAUGH] right?
So get it to read it back to it and
listen to it once.
So that's what you do,
Grammarly, read it back.
Now the third step is by
far the most important,
stop, don't read through it again.
Don't agonize over it again,
walk away from it.
Even if you think it's shit,
even if you think it's a failure,
I don't care, it's ready to go.
Cuz the truth is, you don't have
the time to go over it again, and
again, and again, right?
And if you get into that mindset
of picking over everything
that you have done, then you will never
do any marketing, you'll never blog,
you'll never do anything because
it'll never be good enough, right?
So you have to stick to that.
Then you can design it up, make it look
pretty, make sure it's easy to scan by
adding images, pull out quotes,
bullets, that kinds of stuff.
If you're not a designer, you might
wanna consider using fiverr.com to find
yourself a designer just
to make it look pretty.
It's not gonna cost you very much
because as we've already said,
there are worksheet there.
Don't forget to end your report
with a strong call to action,
which is to sign up to your mailing list.
And we'll come on to why that's
got to be in there later.
And that's it, so that's how you're
gonna get your audience's attention.
You've got all the assets, you've got
all the emails, you're ready to go,
let's just briefly recap.
Make contact to ask for
some initial feedback and thoughts,
that's your initial get on their radar.
Then you're gonna prepare the survey and
associated landing page.
Then you're going to ask people
to complete the survey and
that's your second contact.
You're gonna review some sites,
you're gonna create some scorecards,
you're gonna carry out some interviews,
if anybody's willing to be interviewed.
Then you're gonna write your final report
and you all done on the hard work.